---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Concepts

In this section, we will explore in depth the concept of a digital twin as defined by the platform. We will detail the information it can contain, explain the idea of a "digital twin type", and discuss how the composition works.

### Digital twin definition

In the platform, **a digital twin is defined as a replica of a real entity**, whether tangible or not. This replica can be considered as an enhancement to monitoring the entity because, although it is not strictly necessary to be classified as a digital twin, it is beneficial to connect the real data of the entity with those generated by means of mathematical simulations or artificial intelligence. In this way, **the digital twin becomes a central point that integrates all available sources of information on the entity**, facilitating a unified, fast and effective query that promotes decision-making and, therefore, the optimization of the real entity.

### Digital twin content

A digital twin is composed of static and dynamic data. 

+ **Static data.** Information relevant to the digital twin that is expected to remain constant, such as the model, the date of acquisition or the location of the machine we are replicating. 

+ **Dynamic data.** Data that changes over time and that we will record in time series, such as the position of a mobile robot or the values measured by a sensor.

[comment]:<TENGO QUE EXPLICAR AQUI QUE ES UN THING, QUE STATIC ES ATTRIBUTE Y TO LO DE DITTO VAYA. ABAJO TAMBIEN TEMA POLITICAS Y DEMAS.>

For example, consider a DHT22 temperature and humidity sensor. Its digital twin, represented in JSON format following the [schema provided by Eclipse Ditto](https://eclipse.dev/ditto/basic-thing.html), would look like this:

```json
{
  "policyId": "example:DHT22",
  "attributes": {
    "location": "Spain"
  },
  "features": {
    "temperature": {
      "properties": {
        "value": null
      }
    },
    "humidity": {
      "properties": {
        "value": null
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Digital twin type

### Digital twins composition

### Relative concepts to Eclipse Ditto

#### Ditto Protocol
Eclipse Ditto needs the data in a specific format called Ditto Protocol. The Ditto Protocol defines a JSON based text protocol for communicating with digital twins and the actual physical devices they mirror.
It defines several commands both the actual device and the digital twin are able to understand.

An example of this is a simple temperature sensor reading:

```json
{
    "topic": "RBPI/DHT22/things/twin/commands/merge",
        "headers": {
            "content-type": "application/merge-patch+json"
        },
        "path": "/features",
        "value": {
            "temperature": {
                "properties": {
                "value": 22,
                }
            },
            "humidity": {
                "properties": {
                    "value": 44,
                }
            }
        }
   }
```

For more information about Ditto Protocol and all its available features, please refer to the [Eclipse Ditto documentation](https://eclipse.dev/ditto/3.3/protocol-specification.html).


